.TH "MDAST" "3" "July 2015" "0.26.2" "mdast"
.SH "NAME"
\fBmdast\fR - Markdown processor
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
var mdast \[eq] require(\[aq]mdast\[aq]);
var yamlConfig \[eq] require(\[aq]mdast-yaml-config\[aq]);

\[sl]\[sl] Use a plugin.  mdast-yaml-config allows settings in YAML frontmatter.
var processor \[eq] mdast().use(yamlConfig);

\[sl]\[sl] Parse, modify, and stringify the document:
var doc \[eq] processor.process(
    \[aq]---\[rs]n\[aq] \[pl]
    \[aq]mdast:\[rs]n\[aq] \[pl]
    \[aq]  commonmark: true\[rs]n\[aq] \[pl]
    \[aq]---\[rs]n\[aq] \[pl]
    \[aq]\[rs]n\[aq] \[pl]
    \[aq]2) Some *emphasis*, **strongness**, and \[ga]code\[ga].\[rs]n\[aq]
);
.fi
.RE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
This is the application programming interface documentation for \fBmdast\fR. To find documentation for the command line interface, see \fBman 1 mdast\fR.
.SS "mdast.use(plugin, options?)"
.P
Change the way \fBmdast\fR functions by using a plugin. Plugins are documented at \fIhttps://github.com/wooorm/mdast/blob/master/doc/plugins.md\fR.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBprocessor \[eq] mdast.use(plugin, options?)\fR;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBprocessor \[eq] mdast.use(plugins)\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBParameters\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBplugin\fR (\fBFunction\fR) -- Plugin.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBplugins\fR (\fBArray.<Function>\fR) -- List of plugins.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBoptions\fR (\fBObject?\fR) -- Passed to plugin. Specified by its documentation.
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBObject\fR -- An instance of \fBmdast\fR. The instance functions just like the \fBmdast\fR library itself (it has the same methods), but caches the \fBuse\fRd plugins.
.SS "mdast.parse(file, options?)"
.P
Parse a markdown document into an abstract syntax tree.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBast \[eq] mdast.parse(file\[ba]value, options?)\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBParameters\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfile\fR (\fBFile\fR) -- File object.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBvalue\fR (\fBstring\fR) -- Source of a (virtual) file.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBoptions\fR (\fBObject\fR) -- Settings. See \fBman 7 mdastconfig\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBObject\fR -- Node. Nodes are documented at \fIhttps://github.com/wooorm/mdast/blob/master/doc/nodes.md\fR.
.SS "mdast.run(ast, file, done?)"
.P
Modify an abstract syntax tree by applying plugins to it.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBast \[eq] mdast.run(ast, file\[ba]value?, done?)\fR;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBast \[eq] mdast.run(ast, done?)\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBParameters\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBast\fR (\fBObject\fR) -- Syntax tree as returned by \fBparse()\fR;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfile\fR (\fBFile\fR) -- File object representing the input file;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBvalue\fR (\fBstring\fR) -- Source of the (virtual) input file;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBdone\fR (\fBfunction done(err?, doc?, file?)\fR).
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBObject\fR -- Given AST.
.SS "mdast.stringify(ast, options?)"
.P
Compile an abstract syntax tree into a document.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBdoc \[eq] mdast.stringify(ast, options?)\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBParameters\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBast\fR (\fBObject\fR) -- Syntax tree as returned by \fBparse()\fR;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBoptions\fR (\fBObject\fR) -- Settings. See \fBman 7 mdastconfig\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBstring\fR -- Document. Formatted in markdown by default, or in whatever a plugin generates.
.SS "mdast.process(file, options?, done?)"
.P
Parse, modify, and compile a markdown document it into something else.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBdoc \[eq] mdast.process(file\[ba]value, options?, done?)\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBParameters\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfile\fR (\fBFile\fR) -- File object.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBvalue\fR (\fBstring\fR) -- Source of a (virtual) file.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBoptions\fR (\fBObject\fR) -- Settings. See \fBman 7 mdastconfig\fR.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBdone\fR (\fBfunction done(err?, doc?, file?)\fR).
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBstring\fR -- Document. Formatted in markdown by default, or in whatever a plugin generates.
.SS "function done(err?, doc?, file?)"
.P
Invoked when processing is complete.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfunction done(err)\fR;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfunction done(null, doc, file)\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBParameters\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBexception\fR (\fBError\fR) -- Failure;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBdoc\fR (\fBstring\fR) -- Document generated by the process;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfile\fR (\fBFile\fR) -- File object representing the input file;
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBstring\fR -- Document. Formatted in markdown by default, or in whatever a plugin generates.
.SS "File()"
.P
File objects make it easy to change the directory, name, or extension of a file: let\[aq]s say multiple markdown files are converted to HTML. Instead of overwriting the markdown sources, file objects make it easy to output files with a different (\fB\[dq]html\[dq]\fR) extension. In addition, files expose the raw source to plugins.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfile \[eq] File(file\[ba]value\[ba]options?)\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBParameters\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBvalue\fR (\fBstring\fR) -- Contents of the file;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfile\fR (\fBFile\fR) -- Existing representation, immediately returned;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBoptions\fR (\fBObject\fR): Parts:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
\fBdirectory\fR (\fBstring\fR, default: \fB\[aq]\[aq]\fR) -- Parent directory;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfilename\fR (\fBstring?\fR, default: \fBnull\fR) -- Name, without extension;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBextension\fR (\fBstring\fR, default: \fB\[aq]md\[aq]\fR) -- Extension, without dot;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBcontents\fR (\fBstring\fR, default: \fB\[aq]\[aq]\fR) -- Raw value.
.RE 0

.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBFile\fR -- Instance.
.P
\fBNotes\fR
.P
\fBFile\fR exposes an interface compatible with ESLint\[aq]s formatters. For example, to expose warnings using ESLint\[aq]s \fBcompact\fR formatter, execute the following:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
var compact \[eq] require(\[aq]eslint\[sl]lib\[sl]formatters\[sl]compact\[aq]);
var File \[eq] require(\[aq]mdast\[sl]lib\[sl]file\[aq]);

var file \[eq] new File(\[lC]
    \[aq]directory\[aq]: \[aq]\[ti]\[aq],
    \[aq]filename\[aq]: \[aq]Hello\[aq],
    \[aq]extension\[aq]: \[aq]markdown\[aq]
\[rC]);

file.warn(\[aq]Woops, something happened!\[aq]);

console.log(compact(\[lB]file\[rB]));
.fi
.RE
.P
Which would yield the following:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[ti]\[sl]Hello.markdown: line 0, col 0, Warning - Woops, something happened!

1 problem
.fi
.RE
.SS "File\[sh]toString()"
.P
Getter for internal \fBcontents\fR property.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBvalue \[eq] file.toString()\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBstring\fR -- Contents.
.SS "File\[sh]messages"
.P
A list of warnings and errors associated with the file.
.P
\fBSignature\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBArray.<Message>\fR.
.RE 0

.P
Where \fBMessage\fR has the following properties:
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfatal\fR (\fBboolean?\fR) -- \fBtrue\fR when an exception occurred making the file no longer processable;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBmessage\fR (\fBstring\fR) -- Error reason;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBline\fR (\fBnumber\fR) -- Starting line of exception;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBcolumn\fR (\fBnumber\fR) -- Starting column of exception.
.RE 0

.P
\fBNotes\fR
.P
\fBFile\[sh]exception()\fR, and in turn \fBFile\[sh]warn()\fR and \fBFile\[sh]fail()\fR, return \fBError\fR objects that comply with this schema. Its results can be added to \fBmessages\fR.
.SS "File\[sh]hasFailed()"
.P
Check if a fatal exception occurred making the file no longer processable.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBhasFailed \[eq] file.hasFailed()\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBboolean\fR -- \fBtrue\fR if at least one of \fBfile\fRs \fBmessage\fRs has a \fBfatal\fR property set to \fBtrue\fR.
.SS "File\[sh]exception(reason, position?)"
.P
Create an error.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBerr \[eq] file.exception(err\[ba]reason, node\[ba]location\[ba]position?)\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBParameters\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBerr\fR (\fBError\fR) -- Original error, whose stack is copied and message is used;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBreason\fR (\fBstring\fR) -- Failure reason;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBnode\fR (\fBNode\fR) -- Syntax tree object;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBlocation\fR (\fBObject\fR) -- Syntax tree location (found at \fBnode.position\fR);
.IP \(bu 4
\fBposition\fR (\fBObject\fR) -- Syntax tree position (found at \fBnode.position.start\fR).
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBError\fR -- Pretty error with location information.
.P
This object has the following properties:
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfile\fR (\fBstring?\fR) -- Filename (including directory and extension), if applicable;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBreason\fR (\fBstring\fR) -- Failure reason;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBline\fR (\fBnumber\fR) -- Starting line of exception;
.IP \(bu 4
\fBcolumn\fR (\fBnumber\fR) -- Starting column of exception.
.RE 0

.SS "File\[sh]warn(reason, position?)"
.P
Creates an exception by passing its arguments to \fBFile\[sh]exception()\fR, sets \fBfatal: false\fR on it, and adds it to \fBfile\fRs \fBmessages\fR. Then, it returns the exception.
.P
\fBSee\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBFile\[sh]exception(reason, position?)\fR
.RE 0

.SS "File\[sh]fail(reason, position?)"
.P
Creates an exception by passing its arguments to \fBFile\[sh]exception()\fR, sets \fBfatal: true\fR on it, and adds it to \fBfile\fRs \fBmessages\fR. Then, it returns the exception.
.P
If \fBfile\fR has a falsey \fBquiet\fR property, \fBFile\[sh]fail()\fR throws the exception.
.P
\fBSee\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBFile\[sh]exception(reason, position?)\fR
.RE 0

.SS "File\[sh]filePath()"
.P
Get the filename, with extension and directory, if applicable.
.P
\fBSignatures\fR
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
\fBfilename? \[eq] file.filePath()\fR.
.RE 0

.P
\fBReturns\fR
.P
\fBstring\fR -- If the \fBfile\fR has a \fBfilename\fR, it will be prefixed with the directory (slashed), if applicable, and su\[Fi]xed with the (dotted) extension (if applicable). Otherwise, an empty string is returned.
.SH "BUGS"
.P
\fIhttps://github.com/wooorm/mdast/issues\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
\fBmdast\fR(1), \fBmdastconfig\fR(7).
.SH "AUTHOR"
.P
Written by Titus Wormer \fItituswormer@gmail.com\fR
