.TH "MDASTNODE" "7" "December 2015" "2.3.2" "mdast manual"
.SH "NAME"
\fBmdastnode\fR - mdast syntax representation
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
  \[dq]type\[dq]: \[dq]strong\[dq],
  \[dq]children\[dq]: \[lB]\[lC]
    \[dq]type\[dq]: \[dq]text\[dq],
    \[dq]value\[dq]: \[dq]Foo\[dq],
    \[dq]position\[dq]: \[lC]
      \[dq]start\[dq]: \[lC]
        \[dq]line\[dq]: 1,
        \[dq]column\[dq]: 3,
        \[dq]offset\[dq]: 2
      \[rC],
      \[dq]end\[dq]: \[lC]
        \[dq]line\[dq]: 1,
        \[dq]column\[dq]: 6,
        \[dq]offset\[dq]: 5
      \[rC]
    \[rC]
  \[rC]\[rB],
  \[dq]position\[dq]: \[lC]
    \[dq]start\[dq]: \[lC]
      \[dq]line\[dq]: 1,
      \[dq]column\[dq]: 1,
      \[dq]offset\[dq]: 0
    \[rC],
    \[dq]end\[dq]: \[lC]
      \[dq]line\[dq]: 1,
      \[dq]column\[dq]: 8,
      \[dq]offset\[dq]: 7
    \[rC]
  \[rC]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
\fBmdast\fR exposes markdown as an abstract syntax tree. \fIAbstract\fR means not all information is stored in this tree and an exact replica of the original document cannot be re-created. \fISyntax Tree\fR means syntax \fBis\fR present in the tree, thus an exact syntactic document can be re-created.
.P
This manual contains the definition of the exposed nodes and what they represent.
.SH "NODE"
.P
\fBmdast\fR(3)\[cq]s \fBparse\fR method returns \fBNode\fR objects\[em]plain vanilla objects. Every \fBmdast\fR node inherits the \fBNode\fR interface.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Node \[lC]
    type: string;
    position: Location?;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "LOCATION"
.P
\fBNode\fR can have a reference to its original location, if applicable. Start determines the line and column at which the original location starts; end, respectively; and indent the column at which further lines start.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Location \[lC]
    start: Position;
    end: Position;
    indent: \[lB]uint32 >\[eq] 1\[rB]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "POSITION"
.P
A position contains a column and a line. Both start at \fB1\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Position \[lC]
    line: uint32 >\[eq] 1;
    column: uint32 >\[eq] 1;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "PARENT"
.P
Most nodes inherit the \fBParent\fR (\fBNode\fR) interface: nodes which accept other nodes as children.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Parent <: Node \[lC]
    children: \[lB]Node\[rB];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "TEXT"
.P
Most others inherit \fBText\fR (\fBNode\fR): nodes which accept a value.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Text <: Node \[lC]
    value: string;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "ROOT"
.P
\fBRoot\fR (\fBParent\fR) houses all nodes.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Root <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]root\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "PARAGRAPH"
.P
\fBParagraph\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents a unit of discourse dealing with a particular point or idea.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Paragraph <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]paragraph\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "BLOCKQUOTE"
.P
\fBBlockquote\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents a quote.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Blockquote <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]blockquote\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "HEADING"
.P
\fBHeading\fR (\fBParent\fR), just like with HTML, with a level greater than or equal to 1, lower than or equal to 6.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Heading <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]heading\[dq];
    depth: 1 <\[eq] uint32 <\[eq] 6;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "CODE"
.P
\fBCode\fR (\fBText\fR) occurs at block level (see \fBInlineCode\fR for code spans). \fBCode\fR sports a language tag (when using GitHub Flavoured Markdown fences with a flag, \fBnull\fR otherwise).
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Code <: Text \[lC]
    type: \[dq]code\[dq];
    lang: string \[ba] null;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "INLINECODE"
.P
\fBInlineCode\fR (\fBText\fR) occurs inline (see \fBCode\fR for blocks). Inline code does not sport a \fBlang\fR attribute.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface InlineCode <: Text \[lC]
    type: \[dq]inlineCode\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "YAML"
.P
\fBYAML\fR (\fBText\fR) can occur at the start of a document, and contains embedded YAML data.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface YAML <: Text \[lC]
    type: \[dq]yaml\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "HTML"
.P
\fBHTML\fR (\fBText\fR) contains embedded HTML.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface HTML <: Text \[lC]
    type: \[dq]html\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "LIST"
.P
\fBList\fR (\fBParent\fR) contains \fBListItem\fR\[cq]s.
.P
The \fBstart\fR property contains the starting number of the list when \fBordered: true\fR; \fBnull\fR otherwise.
.P
When all list items have \fBloose: false\fR, the list\[cq]s \fBloose\fR property is also \fBfalse\fR. Otherwise, \fBloose: true\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface List <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]list\[dq];
    loose: true \[ba] false;
    start: uint32 \[ba] null;
    ordered: true \[ba] false;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "LISTITEM"
.P
\fBListItem\fR (\fBParent\fR) is a child of a \fBList\fR.
.P
Loose \fBListItem\fR\[cq]s often contain more than one block-level elements.
.P
When in \fBgfm: true\fR mode, a checked property exists on \fBListItem\fR\[cq]s, either set to \fBtrue\fR (when checked), \fBfalse\fR (when unchecked), or \fBnull\fR (when not containing a checkbox). See \fBTask Lists on GitHub\fR \fI\(lahttps:\[sl]\[sl]help.github.com\[sl]articles\[sl]writing-on-github\[sl]\[sh]task-lists\(ra\fR for information.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface ListItem <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]listItem\[dq];
    loose: true \[ba] false;
    checked: true \[ba] false \[ba] null \[ba] undefined;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "TABLE"
.P
\fBTable\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents tabular data, with alignment. Its children are either \fBTableHeader\fR (the first child), or \fBTableRow\fR (all other children).
.P
\fBtable.align\fR represents the alignment of columns.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Table <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]table\[dq];
    align: \[lB]alignType\[rB];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
.RS 2
.nf
enum alignType \[lC]
    \[dq]left\[dq] \[ba] \[dq]right\[dq] \[ba] \[dq]center\[dq] \[ba] null;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "TABLEHEADER"
.P
\fBTableHeader\fR (\fBParent\fR). Its children are always \fBTableCell\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface TableHeader <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]tableHeader\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "TABLEROW"
.P
\fBTableRow\fR (\fBParent\fR). Its children are always \fBTableCell\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface TableRow <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]tableRow\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "TABLECELL"
.P
\fBTableCell\fR (\fBParent\fR). Contains a single tabular field.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface TableCell <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]tableCell\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "HORIZONTALRULE"
.P
Just a \fBHorizontalRule\fR (\fBNode\fR).
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface HorizontalRule <: Node \[lC]
    type: \[dq]horizontalRule\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "BREAK"
.P
\fBBreak\fR (\fBNode\fR) represents an explicit line break.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Break <: Node \[lC]
    type: \[dq]break\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "EMPHASIS"
.P
\fBEmphasis\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents slightly important text.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Emphasis <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]emphasis\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "STRONG"
.P
\fBStrong\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents super important text.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Strong <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]strong\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "DELETE"
.P
\fBDelete\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents text ready for removal.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Delete <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]delete\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "LINK"
.P
\fBLink\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents the humble hyperlink.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Link <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]link\[dq];
    title: string \[ba] null;
    href: string;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "IMAGE"
.P
\fBImage\fR (\fBNode\fR) represents the figurative figure.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Image <: Node \[lC]
    type: \[dq]image\[dq];
    title: string \[ba] null;
    alt: string \[ba] null;
    src: string;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "FOOTNOTE"
.P
\fBFootnote\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents an inline marker, whose content relates to the document but is outside its flow.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Footnote <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]footnote\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "LINKREFERENCE"
.P
\fBLink\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents a humble hyperlink, its \fBhref\fR and \fBtitle\fR defined somewhere else in the document by a \fBDefinition\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface LinkReference <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]linkReference\[dq];
    identifier: string;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "IMAGEREFERENCE"
.P
\fBLink\fR (\fBNode\fR) represents a figurative figure, its \fBsrc\fR and \fBtitle\fR defined somewhere else in the document by a \fBDefinition\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface ImageReference <: Node \[lC]
    type: \[dq]imageReference\[dq];
    alt: string \[ba] null;
    identifier: string;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "FOOTNOTEREFERENCE"
.P
\fBFootnoteReference\fR (\fBNode\fR) is like \fBFootnote\fR, but its content is already outside the documents flow: placed in a \fBFootnoteDefinition\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface FootnoteReference <: Node \[lC]
    type: \[dq]footnoteReference\[dq];
    identifier: string;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "DEFINITION"
.P
\fBDefinition\fR (\fBNode\fR) represents the definition (i.e., location and title) of a \fBLinkReference\fR or an \fBImageReference\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface Definition <: Node \[lC]
    type: \[dq]definition\[dq];
    identifier: string;
    title: string \[ba] null;
    link: string;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "FOOTNOTEDEFINITION"
.P
\fBFootnoteDefinition\fR (\fBParent\fR) represents the definition (i.e., content) of a \fBFootnoteReference\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface FootnoteDefinition <: Parent \[lC]
    type: \[dq]footnoteDefinition\[dq];
    identifier: string;
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "TEXTNODE"
.P
\fBTextNode\fR (\fBText\fR) represents everything that is just text. Note that its \fBtype\fR property is \fBtext\fR, but it is different from \fBText\fR.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
interface TextNode <: Text \[lC]
    type: \[dq]text\[dq];
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.SH "BUGS"
.P
\fI\(lahttps:\[sl]\[sl]github.com\[sl]wooorm\[sl]mdast\[sl]issues\(ra\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
\fBmdast\fR(1), \fBmdast\fR(3).
.SH "AUTHOR"
.P
Written by Titus Wormer \fI\(latituswormer\[at]gmail.com\(ra\fR
