.TH "MDAST" "1" "December 2015" "2.3.2" "mdast manual"
.SH "NAME"
\fBmdast\fR - Markdown processor
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.P
\fBmdast\fR \[lB]\fBoptions\fR\[rB] <\fIfile\[ba]dir\fR \fI...\fR>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
\fBmdast\fR is a markdown processor powered by plugins.
.P
Logs verbose debugging information when \fB\[Do]DEBUG\fR is set to \fB\[dq]mdast\[dq]\fR.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --help
.fi
.RE
.P
Output short usage information.
.SS "\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --version
.fi
.RE
.P
Output CLI version number.
.SS "\fB-o\fR, \fB--output\fR \[lB]\fIpath\fR\[rB]"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast . --output
mdast . --output doc
mdast readme.md --output doc\[sl]foo.bar
.fi
.RE
.P
Specify output.
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
If output is \fBnot\fR given and one file is processed, the file is written to \fBstdout\fR(4). See \fB--no-stdout\fR to disable this behaviour;
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, if output is \fBnot\fR given and multiple files are processed, files are neither written to \fBstdout\fR(4) nor to the file-system;
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, if output is given but \fBwithout\fR path, input files are overwritten;
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, if a path to an existing directory is given, files are written to that directory;
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, if one file is processed and the parent directory of the given path exists, the file is written to the given path;
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise, a fatal error is thrown.
.RE 0

.SS "\fB-c\fR, \fB--config-path\fR <\fIpath\fR>"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --config-path mdastrc.json
.fi
.RE
.P
Specify configuration location. This loads an \fBmdastrc\fR(5) file which cannot be detected (either because \fB--no-rc\fR is given or because it has a different name) in addition to other detected files.
.SS "\fB-i\fR, \fB--ignore-path\fR <\fIpath\fR>"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --ignore-path .gitignore
.fi
.RE
.P
Specify ignore location. This loads an \fBmdastignore\fR(5) file which cannot be detected (either because \fB--no-ignore\fR is given or because it has a different name) in addition to other detected files.
.SS "\fB-s\fR, \fB--setting\fR <\fIsettings\fR>"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --setting \[dq]position:false\[dq]
.fi
.RE
.P
Specify settings (see \fBmdastsetting\fR(7)). This must be a valid JSON object except for a few differences. See \fBmdastconfig\fR(7) COMMAND LINE SETTINGS for more information.
.SS "\fB-u\fR, \fB--use\fR <\fIplugin\fR>"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --use man
.fi
.RE
.P
Specify a plug-in to use, optionally with options. See \fBmdastplugin\fR(7) COMMAND LINE USAGE for more information.
.SS "\fB-e\fR, \fB--ext\fR <\fIextensions\fR>"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --ext doc
.fi
.RE
.P
Specify one or more extensions to include when searching for files. This will add the given \fBextensions\fR to the internal list, which includes \fB\[aq]md\[aq]\fR, \fB\[aq]markdown\[aq]\fR, \fB\[aq]mkd\[aq]\fR, \fB\[aq]mkdn\[aq]\fR, \fB\[aq]mkdown\[aq]\fR, and \fB\[aq]ron\[aq]\fR.
.P
The given \fBextensions\fR can be comma or semi-colon separated.
.SS "\fB-w\fR, \fB--watch\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast -w .
.fi
.RE
.P
Watch all files and reprocess when they change.
.P
When watching files which would normally regenerate, this behaviour is ignored until the watch is closed.
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[Do] mdast --no-rc readme.md -oqw
\[sh] Watching... (press CTRL\[pl]C to exit)
\[sh] Warning: mdast does not overwrite watched files until exit.
\[sh] Messages and other files are not affected.
.fi
.RE
.P
The watch is stopped when \fBSIGINT\fR is received (usually done by pressing \fBCTRL-C\fR).
.SS "\fB-a\fR, \fB--ast\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --ast
.fi
.RE
.P
Instead of outputting document the internally used AST is exposed.
.SS "\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --quiet
.fi
.RE
.P
Do not output non-essential text, only warnings and errors.
.SS "\fB-S\fR, \fB--silent\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --silent
.fi
.RE
.P
Same as \fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR, but also ignores warnings.
.SS "\fB-f\fR, \fB--frail\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --frail
.fi
.RE
.P
Exit with a status code of \fB1\fR if warnings are triggered for the processed code, instead of the default of only exiting with \fB1\fR on fatal errors.
.SS "\fB--file-path\fR <\fIpath\fR>"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
cat readme.md \[ba] mdast --file-path readme.md > doc\[sl]out.md
.fi
.RE
.P
Process the piped-in document as if it was a file at \fBpath\fR.
.SS "\fB--no-stdout\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --no-stdout
.fi
.RE
.P
Do not write a processed file to \fBstdout\fR(4).
.SS "\fB--no-color\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --no-color
.fi
.RE
.P
Disable ANSI codes in output.
.SS "\fB--no-rc\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --no-rc
.fi
.RE
.P
Disables configuration from \fBmdastrc\fR(5) files. This does not apply to explicitly provided files through \fB-c\fR, \fB--config-path\fR.
.SS "\fB--no-ignore\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast --no-ignore
.fi
.RE
.P
Disables configuration from \fBmdastignore\fR(5) files. This does not apply to explicitly provided files through \fB-i\fR, \fB--ignore-path\fR.
.SS "\fB--\fR"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
mdast . --
.fi
.RE
.P
If a \fB--\fR argument is found, argument parsing is stopped.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.P
\fBmdast\fR exits 0 on success, and 1 otherwise.
.SH "BUGS"
.P
\fI\(lahttps:\[sl]\[sl]github.com\[sl]wooorm\[sl]mdast\[sl]issues\(ra\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
\fBmdastrc\fR(5), \fBmdastignore\fR(5), \fBmdastsetting\fR(7), \fBmdastconfig\fR(7), \fBmdastplugin\fR(7)
.SH "AUTHOR"
.P
Written by Titus Wormer \fI\(latituswormer\[at]gmail.com\(ra\fR
