.TH "MDASTPLUGIN" "7" "December 2015" "2.3.2" "mdast manual"
.SH "NAME"
\fBmdastplugin\fR - mdast plug-in usage
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.P
On \fBmdast\fR(1)
.P
.RS 2
.nf
npm install mdast-lint
mdast --use lint example.md
.fi
.RE
.P
On \fBmdast\fR(3)
.P
.RS 2
.nf
var mdast \[eq] require(\[aq]mdast\[aq]);
var lint \[eq] require(\[aq]mdast-lint\[aq]);

mdast.use(lint).process(\[aq]Alpha **Bravo** Charlie\[aq]);
.fi
.RE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
This manual contains information on how \fBmdast\fR(3) plugins can be used. To create plugins, see \fBmdastplugin\fR(3).
.P
\fBmdast\fR plugins lie at the core of \fBmdast\fR\[cq]s vision. As they operate on the same syntax tree, there is no start-up time penalty when using more than one plug-in\[em]something which traditional tools, which need to re-compile to markdown to connect together, can be immense on large documents.
.SH "USING PLUGINS"
.SS "PROGRAMMATIC USAGE"
.P
To use plugins in \fBmdast\fR(3), the JavaScript API, pass a plugin to \fBmdast.use(plugin, options)\fR.
.P
See \fBmdast\fR(3)\[cq]s USE section for more information.
.SS "COMMAND LINE USAGE"
.P
To use plugins from the CLI, use the \fB--use\fR key (short: \fB-u\fR), which can be passed a single npm plugin, or a path to any CommonJS JavaScript file which exposes a plugin. When referencing an npm plugin, and the plugin\[cq]s name is prefixed by \fBmdast-\fR, this prefix can be omitted.
.P
To pass options, follow the plugin\[cq]s location by an equals sign (\fB\[eq]\fR), which is then followed by settings. For example, \fB--use toc\[eq]heading:contents\fR.
.P
Each setting is delimited by a comma or a semi-colon, and each key is separated with a colon from its value.
.P
See \fBmdast\fR(1)\[cq]s \fB-u\fR, \fB--use\fR option for more information.
.SS ".mdastrc"
.P
\fB.mdastrc\fR and \fBpackage.json\fR files can declare which plugins should be used by including either a list of plugins or a map of plugin\[en]options pairs on a \fBplugins\fR field in the exposed object. When referencing an npm plugin, and the plugin\[cq]s name is prefixed by \fBmdast-\fR, this prefix can be omitted.
.P
For example, the following \fB.mdastrc\fR file will use \fB\fBmdast-lint\fR\fR \fI\(lahttps:\[sl]\[sl]www.npmjs.com\[sl]package\[sl]mdast-lint\(ra\fR:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
  \[dq]plugins\[dq]: \[lB]
    \[dq]lint\[dq]
  \[rB]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
The following \fB.mdastrc\fR file does the same, but additionally provides options to the plugin:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
  \[dq]plugins\[dq]: \[lC]
    \[dq]lint\[dq]: \[lC]
      \[dq]maximum-line-length\[dq]: 70
    \[rC]
  \[rC]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
See \fBmdastrc\fR(5) for more information.
.SH "BUGS"
.P
\fI\(lahttps:\[sl]\[sl]github.com\[sl]wooorm\[sl]mdast\[sl]issues\(ra\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
\fBmdast\fR(1), \fBmdast\fR(3), \fBmdastplugin\fR(7), \fBmdastnode\fR(7).
.SH "AUTHOR"
.P
Written by Titus Wormer \fI\(latituswormer\[at]gmail.com\(ra\fR
