.TH "MDASTRC" "5" "December 2015" "2.3.2" "mdast manual"
.SH "NAME"
\fBmdastrc\fR - mdast config files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.P
\fB.mdastrc\fR, \fBpackage.json\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
\fBmdast\fR gets its configuration from the command line and \fBmdastrc\fR files.
.P
For a list of available configuration options, see \fBmdast\fR(1) or \fBmdastsetting\fR(7).
.SH "FILES"
.P
All \fBmdastrc\fR(5) configuration files are in JSON.
.P
Automatically detected files named \fBpackage.json\fR use the \fBmdastConfig\fR field, whereas other files are used as a whole.
.SH "FIELDS"
.SS "output"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
  \[dq]output\[dq]: \[dq]man\[sl]\[dq]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
The \fBoutput\fR field specifies whether or not files should be written to the file-system (similar to \fB-o\fR, \fB--output\fR \fIpath\fR on \fBmdast\fR(1)). It can be either a boolean, or a string. In the case of a string, the value is treated as the \fBtarget\fR or \fBdirectory\fR field for \fBmv\fR(1).
.SS "settings"
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
  \[dq]settings\[dq]: \[lC]
    \[dq]commonmark\[dq]: true,
    \[dq]bullet\[dq]: \[dq]*\[dq]
  \[rC]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
Settings contains an object mapping a setting to a value. See \fBmdastsetting\fR(7) for available settings.
.SS "plugins"
.P
List:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
  \[dq]plugins\[dq]: \[lB]
    \[dq]toc\[dq]
  \[rB]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
Options:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
  \[dq]plugins\[dq]: \[lC]
    \[dq]github\[dq]: \[lC]
      \[dq]repository\[dq]: \[dq]foo\[sl]bar\[dq]
    \[rC]
  \[rC]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
The \fBplugins\fR field contains either an array of plugins, or an object mapping plugins to their options.
.P
When a plugin is prefixed with \fBmdast-\fR (which is recommended), the prefix can be omitted in the plugin list or map.
.SH "CASCADE"
.P
Precedence is as follows:
.RS 0
.IP \(bu 4
Plug-ins and settings passed to \fBmdast\fR(1);
.IP \(bu 4
Files passed to \fBmdast\fR(1);
.IP \(bu 4
Files named \fB.mdastrc\fR and \fBmdastConfig\fR fields in \fBpackage.json\fR in the directory of the processed file, and in ancestral directories;
.IP \(bu 4
If no \fB.mdastrc\fR and \fBpackage.json\fR were detected in the directory of the file or its ancestral directories, a per-user configuration file (\fB\[ti]\[sl].mdastrc\fR) is used;
.RE 0

.P
If both \fB.mdastrc\fR and \fBpackage.json\fR exist in a directory, the file named \fB.mdastrc\fR takes precedence in the cascade over \fBpackage.json\fR.
.P
For example, for the following project:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
project
\[ba]-- docs
\[ba]   \[ba]-- .mdastrc
\[ba]   \[ba]-- doc.md
\[ba]
\[ba]-- .mdastrc
\[ba]-- package.json
\[ba]-- readme.md
.fi
.RE
.P
Where \fBdocs\[sl].mdastrc\fR looks as follows:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
    \[dq]settings\[dq]: \[lC]
        \[dq]bullet\[dq]: \[dq]\[pl]\[dq]
    \[rC]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
And \fBpackage.json\fR contains:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
    \[dq]mdastConfig\[dq]: \[lC]
        \[dq]settings\[dq]: \[lC]
            \[dq]bullet\[dq]: \[dq]*\[dq]
        \[rC]
    \[rC]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
And \fB.mdastrc\fR contains:
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\[lC]
    \[dq]settings\[dq]: \[lC]
        \[dq]bullet\[dq]: \[dq]-\[dq]
    \[rC]
\[rC]
.fi
.RE
.P
Then, when compiling \fBdocs\[sl]doc.md\fR, \fBmdast\fR(1) would use \fBbullet: \[dq]\[pl]\[dq]\fR because \fBdocs\[sl].mdastrc\fR takes precedence over \fB.mdastrc\fR and \fBpackage.json\fR.
.P
When compiling \fBreadme.md\fR, \fBmdast\fR(1) would use \fBbullet: \[dq]-\[dq]\fR, because \fB.mdastrc\fR takes precedence over \fBpackage.json\fR.
.SH "BUGS"
.P
\fI\(lahttps:\[sl]\[sl]github.com\[sl]wooorm\[sl]mdast\[sl]issues\(ra\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
\fBmdast\fR(1), \fBmdastignore\fR(5), \fBmdastsetting\fR(7), \fBmdastsetting\fR(7).
.SH "AUTHOR"
.P
Written by Titus Wormer \fI\(latituswormer\[at]gmail.com\(ra\fR
